In collaboration with Accenture Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 INSIGHT REPORT JANUARY 2026 2 3 Executive summary Cybersecurity is a frontier where collaboration remains not only possible, but powerful. Cybersecurity in 2026 is accelerating amid growing threats, geopolitical fragmentation and a widening technological divide. Artificial intelligence (AI) is transforming cyber on both sides of the fight – strengthening defence while enabling more sophisticated attacks. Organizations are striving to balance innovation with security – embracing AI and automation at scale, even as governance frameworks and human expertise struggle to keep pace. The result is a fast-paced, metamorphic landscape where disruptions move swiftly across borders, even as technology offers new potential for resilience. This year’s report examines the intersection of AI adoption and cyber readiness, and the emerging disparities that innovation creates. On the geopolitical front, fragmentation and sovereignty concerns are reshaping cooperation and trust among nations. Hybrid threats and escalating cyberattacks reflect the increasing volatility of the global environment. From an economic perspective, unequal access to resources and expertise continues to widen cyber inequity. Ultimately, strengthening collective cyber resilience has become both an economic and a societal imperative. Cybersecurity is a frontier where collaboration remains not only possible, but powerful – a reminder that, even amid fragmentation, economic strain and uncertainty, collective action can drive progress for all. These are three key trends that executives will need to navigate in cybersecurity in 2026: 1. AI is supercharging the cyber arms race AI is anticipated to be the most significant driver of change in cybersecurity in the year ahead, according to 94% of survey respondents (see Appendix: Methodology for more information about the survey). This growing recognition is translating into concrete action across organizations. The percentage of respondents assessing the security of AI tools has nearly doubled from the previous year, from 37% in 2025 to 64% in 2026. FIGURE A Percentage of organizations with processes in place to assess AI security FIGURE B At the same time, AI vulnerabilities are accelerating at an unprecedented pace: 87% of respondents identified AI-related vulnerabilities as the fastest-growing cyber risk over the course of 2025. Perception of increase or decrease in cyber risks over the past year In the past year, do you think the following cyber risks have increased, decreased or stayed the same? AI vulnerabilities 20% 40% 60% 80% Cyber-enabled fraud and phishing Supply chain disruption Exploitation of software vulnerabilities Ransomware attack Insider threat Denial-of-service attacks 28% 54% 58% 65% 77% 87% 32% 54% 39% 39% 32% 21% 13% 61% 18% 0% 100% Increase (%) Neutral (%) Decrease (%) 2. Geopolitics is a defining feature of cybersecurity In 2026, geopolitics remains the top factor influencing overall cyber risk mitigation strategies. Some 64% of organizations are accounting for geopolitically motivated cyberattacks – such as disruption of critical infrastructure or espionage. FIGURE C Top considerations for cyber risk mitigation strategies Which of the following does your organization consider in its overall cyber risk mitigation strategy? (select all that apply) 0% 20% 40% 60% Geopolitically motivated cyberattacks (disruption of critical national infrastructure, espionage, etc.) 64% Disinformation 49% Convergence of IT/OT/IoT/robotics 42% Natural disasters (e.g. extreme weather, long-term environmental disruptions) 41% Dependence on undersea cables or lines of communication 18% Dependence on space-based assets (e.g. satellites, GPS, satellite communications) 15% None of the above 11% Responses (%) Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 FIGURE D FIGURE E Notably, 91% of the largest organizations1 have changed their cybersecurity strategies due to geopolitical volatility. How organizations have adapted cybersecurity strategies amid geopolitical volatility Has your organization’s cybersecurity strategy evolved because of geopolitical volatility? < 1,000 employees 91%9%41%59%YesNoIn the context of geopolitical volatility, confidence in national cyber preparedness continues to erode, with 31% of survey respondents reporting low confidence in their nation’s ability to respond to major cyber incidents, up from 26% last year. Confidence levels vary greatly across regions. > 100,000 employees Respondents from the Middle East and North Africa express a high degree of confidence in their country’s ability to protect critical infrastructure (84%), while confidence is lower among respondents in Latin America and the Caribbean (13%). Regional overview: Confidence in national cyber response to critical infrastructure attacks How confident are you in the preparedness of the country in which you are based to respond to major cyber incidents targeting critical infrastructure? Middle East and North Africa 84% 11% 4% East Asia and Pacific 47% 27% 26% Europe and Central Asia 40% 35% 25% South Asia 40% 40% 19% North America 38% 30% 32% Sub-Saharan Africa 37% 24% 39% Latin America and the Caribbean 13% 38% 49% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Confident Neutral Not confident Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 FIGURE F Recent incidents affecting key infrastructure, such as airports and hydroelectric facilities, continue to call attention to these concerns. Despite its central role in safeguarding critical infrastructure, the public sector reports markedly lower confidence in national preparedness. Some 23% of public-sector organizations reported having insufficient cyberresilience capabilities. Perception of insufficient cyber resilience by sector How would you rate your organization’s cyber resilience? 25% 20% 15% 10% 5% 0% 11% 23% Private sector Public sector and international organizations Our cyber resilience is insufficient 7  3. Cyber-enabled fraud is threatening CEOs and households alike In the survey, 73% of respondents reported that they or someone in their network had been personally affected by cyber-enabled fraud over the course of 2025. FIGURE G Prevalence of cyber-enabled fraud (all respondents) Have you or anyone in your professional/personal network been affected by cyber-enabled fraud in the past 12 months? (select all that apply) Responses (%)Yes No Yes, phising, vishing or smishing attacks Yes, invoice or payment fraud Yes, insider threat or employee-led fraud Yes, romance or impersonation scams Yes, investment or cryptocurrency fraud Yes, identity theft 32% 17% 17% 20% 37% 62% 73% 27% 0% 20% 40% 60% Chief executive officers (CEOs) rate cyber-enabled fraud as their top concern, shifting focus from ransomware to emerging risks such as cyberenabled fraud and AI vulnerabilities. Chief information security officers (CISOs), by contrast, remain concerned about ransomware and supply chain resilience. This reflects how cybersecurity priorities diverge between the boardroom and the front line. TABLE 1 Ranking of CEOs’ and CISOs’ cyber risk concerns for their organizations Which cyber risks concern you most for your organization? Rank Chief executive officer (CEO) Chief information security officer (CISO) 2025 2026 2025 2026 1 Ransomware attack Cyber-enabled fraud and phishing Ransomware attack Ransomware attack 2 Cyber-enabled fraud and phishing AI vulnerabilities Supply chain disruption Supply chain disruption 3 Supply chain disruption Exploitation of software vulnerabilities Cyber-enabled fraud and phishing Exploitation of software vulnerabilities Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 9 10 Threat landscape Cyber-enabled fraud is CEOs’ top concern, while ransomware remains the primary concern for CISOs In 2025, CEOs were most concerned about ransomware attacks, followed by cyber-enabled fraud. In 2026, their priorities shifted, with cyber-enabled fraud and phishing taking the top spot and AI vulnerabilities emerging second. For CISOs, the top risks showed strong continuity, with ransomware attacks remaining the leading concern and supply chain disruption consistently holding second place across both years. This suggests CEOs are prioritizing financial loss prevention and preparing for new threats, while CISOs remain focused on operational resilience. Ranking of CEOs’ and CISOs’ cyber risk concerns for their organizations TABLE 2 Which cyber risks concern you most for your organization? Rank Chief executive officer (CEO) Chief information security officer (CISO) 2025 2026 2025 2026 1 Ransomware attack Cyber-enabled fraud and phishing Ransomware attack Ransomware attack 2 Cyber-enabled fraud and phishing AI vulnerabilities Supply chain disruption Supply chain disruption 3 Supply chain disruption Exploitation of software vulnerabilities Cyber-enabled fraud and phishing Exploitation of software vulnerabilities CEOs of highly resilient companies are concerned about AI vulnerabilities Cyber-enabled fraud and phishing remain the top cybersecurity concerns for CEOs of insufficiently resilient organizations. However, as resilience strengthens, risk perception shifts towards emerging threats: among CEOs of highly resilient organizations, AI-related vulnerabilities rise to the top. This suggests that resilient organizations are more attuned to the evolving risks posed by advanced technologies. CEO survey responses, segmented by organizational resilience level TABLE 3 Which cyber risks concern you most for your organization? High resilience (rank) Insufficient resilience (rank) AI vulnerabilities 1 4 Cyber-enabled fraud and phishing 2 1 Supply chain disruption 3 7 Exploitation of software vulnerabilities 4 3 Ransomware attack 5 2 Threat landscape Cyber-enabled fraud is CEOs’ top concern, while ransomware remains the primary concern for CISOs In 2025, CEOs were most concerned about ransomware attacks, followed by cyber-enabled fraud. In 2026, their priorities shifted, with cyber-enabled fraud and phishing taking the top spot and AI vulnerabilities emerging second. For CISOs, the top risks showed strong continuity, with ransomware attacks remaining the leading concern and supply chain disruption consistently holding second place across both years. This suggests CEOs are prioritizing financial loss prevention and preparing for new threats, while CISOs remain focused on operational resilience. Ranking of CEOs’ and CISOs’ cyber risk concerns for their organizations TABLE 2 Which cyber risks concern you most for your organization? Rank Chief executive officer (CEO) Chief information security officer (CISO) 2025 2026 2025 2026 1 Ransomware attack Cyber-enabled fraud and phishing Ransomware attack Ransomware attack 2 Cyber-enabled fraud and phishing AI vulnerabilities Supply chain disruption Supply chain disruption 3 Supply chain disruption Exploitation of software vulnerabilities Cyber-enabled fraud and phishing Exploitation of software vulnerabilities CEOs of highly resilient companies are concerned about AI vulnerabilities Cyber-enabled fraud and phishing remain the top cybersecurity concerns for CEOs of insufficiently resilient organizations. However, as resilience strengthens, risk perception shifts towards emerging threats: among CEOs of highly resilient organizations, AI-related vulnerabilities rise to the top. This suggests that resilient organizations are more attuned to the evolving risks posed by advanced technologies. CEO survey responses, segmented by organizational resilience level TABLE 3 Which cyber risks concern you most for your organization? High resilience (rank) Insufficient resilience (rank) AI vulnerabilities 1 4 Cyber-enabled fraud and phishing 2 1 Supply chain disruption 3 7 Exploitation of software vulnerabilities 4 3 Ransomware attack 5 2 Insider threat 6 6 Denial-of-service attacks 7 5 Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 11 AI risks Data leaks and advancement of adversarial capabilities dominate CEOs’ concerns about generative AI CEOs identify data leaks (30%) and the advancement of adversarial capabilities (28%) as the most significant security concerns related to generative AI (genAI). These two risks stand out clearly above others, indicating that exposure of proprietary data through genAI and the growing sophistication of cyber attackers are the primary issues on CEOs’ radars for 2026. FIGURE 1 CEOs’ perception of key AI security risks Which cybersecurity issue related to genAI concerns you the most? Data leaks (exposure of personal data through genAI) 30% Advancement of adversarial capabilities 28% Technical security of the AI systems themselves 15% Increased complexity of security governance 13% Legal concerns of intellectual property and liability 9% Software supply chain and code development risks 6% 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% CEO (%) Geopolitics Private-sector CEOs question national readiness for major cyberattacks on critical infrastructure Less than 45% of all CEOs from the private sector are confident in their country’s ability to respond to major cyber incidents targeting critical infrastructure. FIGURE 2 CEOs’ confidence in national responses to cyberattacks on critical infrastructure Cybersecurity is the foundation for our digital world. It is at the heart of trust and will allow society to fully benefit from the transformations enabled by new technologies like AI and quantum. But it’s not something one can do on their own. We have to come together, share intelligence globally and develop the skills equal to emerging risks. Society knows what’s at stake if we get this wrong. It’s critical that we get it right. If we do, we’ll be able to deliver on the many possibilities for so many people around the world. Michael Miebach, Chief Executive Officer, Mastercard CEOs of highly resilient organizations prioritize threat intelligence and information sharing to address geopolitical volatility Some 52% of CEOs of highly resilient organizations are prioritizing threat intelligence on nation-state actors, compared to 13% of CEOs of insufficiently resilient organizations. Similarly, 48% of CEOs of highly resilient organizations are increasing collaboration with government agencies and information-sharing groups, whereas only 6% of CEOs of insufficiently resilient organizations report doing so. This indicates that resilience is no longer built in isolation. It is achieved through shared intelligence and partnerships. FIGURE 3 CEOs’ views on the evolution of cybersecurity strategy amid geopolitical volatility, by organizational resilience level Has your organization’s cybersecurity strategy evolved because of geopolitical volatility? (select all that apply) 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 60%50% Yes, we have increased focus on threat intelligence related to nation-state actors 52% 13% Yes, we have increased engagement with government agencies or information-sharing groups 48% 6% Yes, we have increased our cybersecurity budget 30% 13% Yes, we have changed or are changing vendors due to geopolitical considerations 30% 13% Yes, we have stopped doing business or conducting operations in certain countries 19% 6% Yes, our cybersecurity budget has been cut 13% CEO of highly resilient organization (%) CEO of insufficiently resilient organization (%) Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 13 Resilience CEOs of highly resilient organizations cite external ecosystem risks as the top challenge to cyber resilience, while less resilient peers point to funding and skills shortages As organizational resilience improves, CEOs increasingly shift their attention from internal resource constraints, such as funding or skills shortages, to broader ecosystem risks. In the survey, 78% of CEOs of highly resilient organizations identify supply chain and third-party dependencies as the most significant challenge to further strengthening resilience. On the other hand, cybersecurity skills shortage (56%) and lack of funds (63%) were the top challenges identified by CEOs of insufficiently resilient organizations to improve their cyber resilience. FIGURE 4 CEOs’ greatest challenge to becoming cyber resilient, by organizational resilience level Supply chain CEOs of highly resilient organizations integrate security into their procurement process to address supply chain risk CEOs of highly resilient organizations integrate security into their procurement process (70%) and prioritize supplier-maturity assessments (59%) to address supply chain risk. FIGURE 5 CEO approaches to supply chain risk management, by organizational resilience level How does your organization address supply chain cyber risk? (select all that apply) We involve our security function in the procurement process We asses the security maturity of our suppliers We align our cyber resilience strategy among our ecosystem partners We map our ecosystem in detail to understand where we or our partners are exposed to cyberthreats We simulate cyber incidents and/or plan recovery exercises with our ecosystem partners We share information on threats with partners in our ecosystem (customers, suppliers, partners) 70% 31% 59% 31% 48% 31% 48% 31% 44% 6% 30% 38% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% CEO of highly resilient organization CEO of insufficiently resilient organization Inequity CEOs from sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean face the greatest cyber skills shortages Outside of Europe and North America, more than half of CEOs admit lacking the skills to achieve current cybersecurity goals, with sub-Saharan Africa (70%) and Latin America and the Caribbean (69%) facing the greatest gaps. FIGURE 6 CEOs’ views on whether their organization’s workforce has the skills for current cybersecurity objectives, by region Does your organization’s workforce have the skills needed to achieve its current cybersecurity objectives? Europe and Central Asia North America East Asia and Pacific South Asia Middle East and North Africa Latin America and the Caribbean Sub-Saharan Africa 33%67% 35%65% 50%50% 50%50% 50%50% 69%31% 70%30% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Yes, we have the people and skills we need today No, we are missing critical people and skills 16 17 3.1 AI is reshaping risk, accelerating both offence and defence Developments in AI are reshaping multiple domains, including cybersecurity. Implemented well, these technologies can assist and support human operators in detecting, defending and responding to cyberthreats. However, they can also pose serious risks such as data leaks, cyberattacks and online harms if they malfunction, or are misused. Governments must take a forward-looking, practical and collaborative approach to developing and using emerging technologies safely, as their capabilities and risks continue to evolve. The risks transcend borders, and the challenge is to maximize AI’s benefits, including to strengthen our cyber resilience, while minimizing its risks. Josephine Teo, Minister for Digital Development and Information and Minister-in-Charge of Cybersecurity and Smart Nation Group, Singapore AI is anticipated to be the most significant driver are leveraging AI to enhance the scale, speed, of change in cybersecurity in the year ahead, sophistication and precision of their attacks, driving according to 94% of survey respondents. AI is a new generation of automated exploitation and reshaping the cybersecurity landscape across three targeted social engineering (see Section 3.3). interconnected dimensions. First, the widespread integration of AI systems introduces an expanded Together, these dynamics illustrate the dual-attack surface, creating novel vulnerabilities that use nature of AI, both as a force multiplier for traditional controls were not designed to address. defence and as a catalyst for attackers. As this Second, defenders are harnessing AI to strengthen technological competition intensifies, organizations their cyber capabilities – augmenting detection, are shifting from reactive to proactive security, while accelerating incident response and automating reassessing governance, validation and oversight at high-volume analytical tasks. Third, threat actors every stage of AI adoption. FIGURE 7 Impacts of AI on cybersecurity Impacts of AI on cybersecurity Cybersecurity capabare tcyber harms to enterprise New attack surface and propagation of risks across businesses New attack surface offers new targets and attack vectors, which will need to be defended More potent cyberattacks Toxicity of cyberspace increases, targeting of victims more effective Wider attack surface and ilities need to innovate to protect the business; consequences of attacks ightly linked to business processes Enhanced cyber defence tools Better prevention and attack detection, and more effective incident response Next-generation cyber arms race driven by threat interest and potential for collateral damage Source: Artificial Intelligence and Cybersecurity: Balancing Risks and Rewards. (2025). World Economic Forum2 Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 18 AI’s benefits are contingent on disciplined execution. Poorly implemented solutions can introduce new risks – misconfiguration, biased decision-making, over-reliance on automation and susceptibility to adversarial manipulation – unless organizations embed robust guardrails, security-by-design practices and continuous monitoring. The implication is clear: AI can improve cybersecurity, but only when deployed within sound governance frameworks that keep human judgement at the centre. At the same time, too many controls can create friction, so it is essential to strike a careful balance. Security of AI: from awareness to action According to the Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 survey, 87% of respondents identified AI-related vulnerabilities as the fastest-growing cyber risk over the course of 2025. FIGURE 8 Perception of increase or decrease in cyber risks over the past year FIGURE 9 Top concerns related to genAI Which cybersecurity issues related to generative AI concern you the most? 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% Data leaks (exposure of personal data through genAI) 34% 22% 21% 29% 47% 46% 13% 5% 9% 12% 13% 9% 7% 6% 8% 4% 4% 8% Advancement of adversarial capabilities (e.g. phishing, malware development, deep fakes) Technical security of the AI systems themselves Increased complexity of security governance Software supply chain and code development risks (e.g. potential backdoors) Legal concerns of intellectual property and liability 0% 2026 2025 2024 Growing awareness of AI-related cybersecurity risks is reflected in the increasing focus on the secure use of AI. The Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2025 highlighted a significant gap between the widespread recognition of AI-driven risks and the rapid adoption of AI technologies without adequate safeguards. By 2026, however, this picture is changing: the share of organizations assessing the security of their AI tools has nearly doubled – from 37% in 2025 to 64% in 2026 – indicating that more organizations are introducing structured processes and governance models to manage AI securely and responsibly. FIGURE 10 Percentage of organizations with processes in place to assess AI security FIGURE 11 Frequency of AI security assessments in organizations Does your organization have a process in place to assess the security of AI tools before deploying them? 24%40% 7% 29% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Yes, we review periodically Yes, we review once I don’t know No In the 2026 survey, 40% of organizations reported conducting periodic reviews of their AI tools before deploying them, rather than only doing a one-time assessment (24%) – a clear sign of progress towards continuous assurance. However, roughly one-third still lack any process to validate AI security before deployment, leaving systemic exposures even as the race to adopt AI in cyber defences accelerates. The market’s drive to adopt new AI features often outpaces security readiness, creating exploitable vulnerabilities.3 In response to these emerging risks, a number of fundamental measures should be prioritized to secure AI at the infrastructure level. This includes protecting the data used in the training and customization of AI models from breaches and unauthorized access. AI systems should be developed with security as a core principle, incorporating regular updates and patches to address potential vulnerabilities. It is also critical for organizations to deploy robust authentication and encryption protocols to ensure the protection of customer interactions and data.4 The widespread adoption of AI agents Yes, for phishing and email threat detection 20% 40% 52% Yes, to detect and respond to intrusions or anomalies 46% Yes, for user-behaviour analytics and insider threat detection 40% Yes, for threat intelligence and risk prioritization 39% Yes, for other purposes 8% Yes, for automating security operations 43% Yes, for phishing and email threat detection 20% 40% 52% Yes, to detect and respond to intrusions or anomalies 46% Yes, for user-behaviour analytics and insider threat detection 40% Yes, for threat intelligence and risk prioritization 39% Yes, for other purposes 8% Yes, for automating security operations 43% FIGURE 12 How organizations are implementing AI for cybersecurity Has your organization implemented any AI-enabled tools to fulfil its cybersecurity objectives? (select up to three) 77% 23% Yes No Criminals are always willing to use all possible ways to get access to value, much of which is contained in the cyber infrastructure. Consequently, to stay ahead, those of us who defend must use every tool at our disposal – which now includes agentic AI. Arvind Krishna, Chief Executive Officer, IBM 22 AI for cybersecurity AI is fundamentally transforming security operations – accelerating detection, triage and response while automating labour-intensive tasks such as log analysis and compliance reporting. AI’s ability to process vast datasets and identify patterns at speed positions it as a competitive advantage for organizations seeking to stay ahead of increasingly sophisticated cyberthreats. The survey data reveals that 77% of organizations have adopted AI for cybersecurity, primarily to enhance phishing detection (52%), intrusion and anomaly response (46%) and user-behaviour analytics (40%). Addressing the practical challenges of AI adoption in cybersecurity, organizations consistently identify insufficient knowledge and/ or skills (54%) to deploy AI for cybersecurity, the 0% 60% Responses (%) need for human oversight (41%) and uncertainty about risk (39%) as the main hurdles. These findings indicate that trust is still a barrier to widespread AI adoption. FIGURE 13 Barriers in AI implementation for cybersecurity What implementation hurdles does your organization face in embracing AI for cybersecurity? (select all that apply) 0% 60% Insufficient knowledge and/or skills 20% 40% AI-generated security responses must be validated by a human before implementing Insufficient funds Unclear business case Uncertainty about risk 54% 41% 39% 36% 33% Responses (%) As organizations navigate the integration of AI into their security operations, the balance between automation and human judgement becomes increasingly critical. While AI excels at automating repetitive, high-volume tasks, its current limitations in contextual judgement and strategic decision-making remain clear. Over-reliance on ungoverned automation risks creating blind spots that adversaries may exploit. This evolving dynamic is reshaping the role of cybersecurity professionals, highlighting the importance of adapting skill sets to meet new demands. According to the World Economic Forum’s The Future of Jobs Report 2025, “networks and cybersecurity” are among the top three fastest-growing skills projected for 2030 – alongside AI and big data and technological literacy – reinforcing the urgency for targeted upskilling and continuous learning.6 Rather than replacing human expertise, AI is enabling specialists to shift their focus towards strategic oversight, governance and policy while delegating routine operational tasks to automation. This transition demands new skill sets, blending technical proficiency with strategic and ethical considerations, and underscores the growing importance of AI literacy across security teams. The priorities for organizations are clear: invest in AI literacy and secure-use skills, and embed governance and validation, without creating new single points of failure. A collaborative model, anchored in security-by-design principles, emerges as the recommended path forward – enabling organizations to harness AI’s advantages while mitigating vulnerabilities and ensuring innovation strengthens, rather than compromises, cybersecurity. How industries are adopting AI for cybersecurity The adoption of AI tools to augment cybersecurity capabilities varies across industries, reflecting sector-specific risk profiles and operational needs. The energy sector emphasizes intrusion and anomaly detection (according to 69% of respondents who have implemented AI for cybersecurity); the materials and infrastructure sector prioritizes phishing protection (80%); and the manufacturing, supply chain and transportation sector reports greater use of automated security operations (59%). These differences not only reflect sectoral risk profiles and operating constraints but also collectively point to a maturing portfolio of AI-enabled cyber defence capabilities that spans detection, intelligence, analytics and orchestrated cyber defence. The differences in AI adoption for cybersecurity will be analysed in Section 3.6. Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 23 FIGURE 14 Use cases of AI for cyber defence across industries Has your organization implemented any AI-enabled tools to fulfil its cybersecurity objectives? Yes, to detect and respond to intrusion or anomalies Yes, for phishing and email threat detection Yes, for automating security operations 20% 40% 60% 80% 0% Yes, for threat intelligence Yes, for user behaviour analytics and risk prioritization and insider threat detection Energy Financial services Health and consumer ICT and media Manufacturing, supply chain and transportation Materials and infrastructure Professional services and institutional 3.2 Geopolitics is a defining feature of cybersecurity In an increasingly fragmented global environment – marked by conflicts, geoeconomic tensions, trade wars, sanctions and growing technological competition – geopolitics has become a defining force shaping cybersecurity. The Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 survey data reveals that, although the percentage of organizations changing their cybersecurity strategy due to geopolitics has declined from 93% in 2023 to 66% in 2026, geopolitics remains the top factor influencing overall cyber risk mitigation strategies. This suggests that the initial wave of adaptations following the geopolitical turmoil that dominated the headlines in 2022 and 2023 has passed, and that geopolitical risk is now a major factor shaping cyber defence. 24 FIGURE 15 Year-over-year evolution of cybersecurity strategy shifts due to geopolitical volatility Has your organization’s cybersecurity strategy evolved because of geopolitical volatility? 2026 66% 34% 2025 59% 41% 2024 87% 13% 2023 93% 7% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% YesNoFIGURE 16 Top considerations for cyber risk mitigation strategies Which of the following does your organization consider in its overall cyber risk mitigation strategy? (select all that apply) Geopolitically motivated cyberattacks (disruption of critical national infrastructure, espionage, etc.) Natural disasters (e.g. extreme weather, long-term environmental disruptions) Disinformation None of the above Convergence of IT/OT/IoT/robotics Dependence on undersea cables or lines of communication Dependence on space-based assets (e.g. satellites, GPS, satellite communications) 11% 15% 18% 41% 42% 49% 64% 0% 20% Responses (%) Organizations are increasingly shifting from isolated defence to intelligence-driven collaboration. In response to geopolitical volatility, survey respondents identified a stronger focus on threat intelligence and deeper engagement with 40% 60% government agencies as the top two drivers of change in their cybersecurity strategies. This trend indicates a growing recognition that navigating an uncertain geopolitical landscape demands collaboration and shared situational awareness. Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 25 FIGURE 17 Aspects of shifting cybersecurity strategy due to geopolitical volatility Has your organization’s cybersecurity strategy evolved because of geopolitical volatility? (select all that apply) 20% 40% Yes, we have increased focus on threat intelligence related to nation-state actors 36% Yes, we have increased engagement with government agencies or informtion-sharing groups 33% Yes, we have increased our cybersecurity budget 21% Yes, we have changed or are changing vendors due to geopolitical considerations 19% Yes, we have stopped doing business or conducting operations in certain countries 14% Yes, our budget has been cut 9% 0% Responses (%) The shift towards intelligence-driven collaboration is being led primarily by global organizations with a larger number of employees, which are inherently more exposed to geopolitical volatility due to their global operations. These large employers are proactively seeking greater collaboration to manage this heightened exposure – leveraging their scale and resources to strengthen resilience. Data shows that 70% of the largest employers (those with more than 100,000 employees) have increased their focus on threat intelligence, compared to only 30% of small employers (those with 1,000 employees or fewer).7 Similarly, 49% of these large employers have deepened their engagement with government agencies or information-sharing groups, versus 26% of small employers. In contrast, those smaller organizations, with limited staff and narrower geographic footprints, appear to be less aware of direct geopolitical pressures and often have less capacity to participate in collective security efforts. This may mean relying more frequently on risk acceptance rather than active mitigation in response to geopolitical volatility. FIGURE 18 Strategy shifts due to geopolitical volatility among small and very large employers (by headcount) FIGURE 19 Local events – global impact Geopolitical instability and armed conflicts are reshaping the cyberthreat landscape, creating complex and unpredictable conditions for organizations. As global fragmentation deepens – driven by conflicts, sanctions and technological rivalry – cybersecurity is emerging as a critical extension of geopolitical competition. The large-scale power outage experienced in the Iberian Peninsula, while not in itself the result of a cyberattack, highlighted the impact a cyberattack could have on such critical national infrastructure. Ongoing instability in the wake of the war in Ukraine has coincided with a rise in hybrid attacks, using drones to target European airports and other critical infrastructure, along with the spread of disinformation, which have further destabilized the regional security landscape.8 Beyond Europe, escalating geopolitical rivalries and conflicts across the Indo-Pacific, Middle East and Africa require organizations to maintain heightened vigilance as risks intensify across regions and industries. Of particular concern to participants in focus groups for this report was the use of advanced offensive cyber capabilities by nation-state actors to hack telecommunications networks in the United States.9,10,11 The shift to a paradigm of more global confrontation – for example, by using trade policies, including tariffs and export restrictions – is reshaping alliances and technology dependencies. Political tensions are contributing to a growing fragmentation of global technology ecosystems, as countries diversify their partnerships and supply chains. Political and economic tensions are also driving countries and corporations to reconfigure supply chains, reshore manufacturing and cultivate “trusted” regional partners. The rush to establish alternative suppliers, logistics channels or data-hosting arrangements often outpaces cyber due diligence, expanding the attack surface across less-secure networks and third parties. As tariffs and policy shifts ripple through industries, cybersecurity risk management must evolve in tandem – treating trade disruptions as triggers for renewed threat modelling and vendor-risk reassessment.12 In this volatile environment, cyber operations have become tools of diplomacy and influence – used to shape political outcomes and disrupt trade – further reinforcing the link between geopolitical uncertainty and organizational cyber risk exposure. Although geopolitical volatility continues to weigh on strategic decision-making, a concerning trend has emerged: reductions in cybersecurity budgets that may constrain organizational capacity to manage growing threats. Survey data shows that 12% of organizations based in North America and 13% of organizations based in Latin America and the Caribbean have reported cutting cybersecurity budgets due to geopolitical volatility. As state-sponsored attacks and espionage campaigns intensify, organizations face mounting challenges in forecasting cyber risks and aligning strategies with shifting global conditions. Participants in focus group interviews for this report warn that these pressures will persist, reinforcing the need for adaptive, resilient cyber strategies despite constrained budgets. Geopolitical tensions driving critical infrastructure vulnerabilities Geopolitical tensions particularly expose threats and vulnerabilities in the critical national infrastructure that supports society and underpins the operations of countless organizations. Sectors such as energy, water and transportation are increasingly targeted in cyber warfare campaigns, where the interconnected nature of systems amplifies the impact of disruptions. A striking illustration came in April 2025 when a Norwegian hydropower dam was hacked, opening a floodgate and releasing 500 litres of water per second for four hours, in what officials described as a deliberate act of sabotage.13 Alarmingly, 31% of the Global Cybersecurity Outlook survey participants express lack of confidence in their nation’s ability to respond effectively to major cyber incidents, which is up from 26% last year. This indicates a growing sense of uncertainty and heightened exposure. Overall confidence in national cyber response to critical infrastructure attacks Respondents’ perceptions of their country’s from the Middle East and North Africa (84% of ability to protect critical national infrastructure respondents), far less confidence is expressed vary significantly across regions. While a high by respondents based in Latin America and degree of confidence is expressed by respondents the Caribbean (13%).FIGURE 20 Regional overview: Confidence in national cyber response to critical infrastructure attacks How confident are you in the preparedness of the country in which you are based to respond to major cyber incidents targeting critical infrastructure? Middle East and North Africa 84% 11% 4% East Asia and Pacific 47% 27% 26% Europe and Central Asia 40% 35% 25% South Asia 40% 40% 19% North America 38% 30% 32% Sub-Saharan Africa 37% 24% 39% Latin America and the Caribbean 13% 38% 49% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% Confident Neutral Not confident BOX 2 Strengthening cyber readiness through coordinated national action Saudi Arabia’s cybersecurity resilience is built on events such as Hajj, these exercises stress-test a clear national principle: strength begins with containment, crisis management and cross-sector people. When individuals, organizations and coordination, ensuring that readiness is both sectors are equipped with the right awareness and operational and proven. skills, they form a unified shield that reinforces the nation’s digital security and resilience. In parallel, nationwide awareness initiatives distil technical insights into accessible, Rooted in this principle, the National Cybersecurity culturally attuned guidance that strengthens Authority (NCA) has established a whole-of-nation daily vigilance. These campaigns extend model that elevates readiness at every level of from national programmes to individual society. The NCA sets strategic direction and is engagement, aligning stakeholders across supported by the Saudi Information Technology sectors to address risks such as phishing and Company (SITE), which translates these priorities AI-driven misinformation. into actionable, high-impact programmes. Together, NCA and SITE are shaping a Through its cyber drills, SITE delivers highcybersecurity culture where awareness, fidelity simulations that enhance preparedness preparedness and coordinated action are for evolving cybersecurity threats. During major embedded across the entire nation. 100% Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 28 Cybersecurity in the sovereignty era The uneven confidence across regions points to a broader shift in how nations perceive cyber resilience – from a technical challenge to a question of sovereignty and self-reliance. As nations seek to protect critical infrastructure, many are re-evaluating their dependencies on foreign technology providers and global supply chains. This connection between infrastructure protection and digital autonomy has become a defining feature of modern cybersecurity policy. Over the course of 2025, economic uncertainty and geopolitical instability have become deeply intertwined, amplifying global cyber risk and complicating organizations’ ability to anticipate and mitigate emerging threats. As political tensions and trade disputes reshape alliances and technology dependencies, the world is witnessing growing fragmentation across digital and technological ecosystems. This renewed focus on digital sovereignty reflects an urgent drive by states and organizations to safeguard autonomy, control critical assets and reduce exposure to external shocks. The term “cyber sovereignty” is often used to mean the application of traditional state sovereignty rights and obligations (i.e. control of territory, non-intervention, jurisdiction) to the domain of cyberspace.14 The concept is complicated by the fact that cyberspace doesn’t map neatly onto physical territory (servers, cables, data flows cross jurisdictions), so applying conventional sovereignty (which is territory-based) becomes challenging. At the organizational level, concerns over sovereignty have become increasingly tangible. Governments, public institutions and private enterprises alike are reassessing dependencies on foreign technology providers and global cloud infrastructure, in light of geopolitical tensions and supply chain vulnerabilities. For instance, several European actors – including municipalities such as Copenhagen, in Denmark, and federal agencies in Germany – have begun shifting towards sovereign or regionally managed cloud solutions to ensure compliance with national data-protection mandates and to mitigate perceived risks associated with extraterritorial control of data.15 Similar debates are unfolding elsewhere as organizations weigh the benefits of global interoperability against the imperative of maintaining control over critical digital assets and sensitive information. This trend illuminates a broader recalibration of trust – not only in systems and technologies, but in the geopolitical reliability of the ecosystems that underpin them. The growing attention to sovereignty emphasizes the tension between preserving openness and interoperability and safeguarding national autonomy, control and resilience against external disruptions. As the threat landscape evolves and AI increasingly powers offensive operations in cyberspace, we must step up our work on the resilience of our critical infrastructure and connectivity. The EU stands ready to work with like-minded partners to protect what is today the digital backbone of our economy and society. Looking ahead, our priority is to boost investments in cyber to strengthen Europe’s industrial capabilities and harness deep tech for better detection and anticipation, invest in people to close the cyber skills gap, and deepen intelligence sharing so that we can spot and address vulnerabilities faster. Henna Virkkunen, Executive Vice-President for Tech Sovereignty, Security and Democracy, European Commission Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 29 3.3 The evolving landscape of cybercrime: AI, fraud and the global response Over the course of 2025, several high-profile cybercrime cases have dominated the headlines, with cyberattacks disrupting retail, businesses and manufacturing operations – and even targeting nurseries.16 Ransomware continues to be the leading concern for CISOs; by contrast, CEOs tend to be more concerned on the broader business impacts of frauds. For CISOs this concern reflects the significant operational disruption a successful ransomware attack can inflict on the availability of critical information technology (IT) and operational technology (OT) systems. Many of the major cyber incidents that made the headlines in 2025 were, in fact, driven by ransomware demands. As one of the most lucrative tactics for cybercriminals, ransomware remains a persistent threat, and the increasing integration of AI into attack methods is expected to make these attacks even more effective. Cyber-enabled fraud continues to grow in scale, taking a heavy toll on individuals and organizations around the world. According to the Global Cybersecurity Outlook survey data, 77% of respondents reported an increase in cyber-enabled fraud and phishing overall, while 73% claimed that they or someone in their network had been personally affected by cyber-enabled fraud. The three most common types of attacks reported are phishing (including vishing and smishing), payment fraud and identity theft. FIGURE 21 Prevalence of cyber-enabled fraud (all respondents) Globally, cyber-enabled fraud is reaching record 79% of respondents. Cyber-enabled fraud poses highs, and sub-Saharan Africa leads the trend, a pervasive societal threat, undermining trust and with 82% of respondents reporting exposure to security across all demographics – from corporate digital scams, followed by North America, with leaders to households and vulnerable populations. FIGURE 22 Prevalence of cyber-enabled fraud across regions FIGURE 23 Systemic defence framework BOX 3 Disrupting cybercrime through multistakeholder collaboration The changing architecture of cybercrime The Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2025 highlighted the growing convergence between cybercrime and organized crime groups, noting that the cybercrime landscape has evolved from opportunistic activities to highly organized operations that increasingly mirror legitimate business practices. The commercialization of cybercrime, via cybercrime-asa-service (CaaS) platforms, continues to lower entry barriers and expand the scale, sophistication and impact of cyberattacks. Over the course of 2025, a new shift has emerged in the structure and behaviour of cybercrime collectives. An increasing number of cybercriminals – particularly younger actors – are actively pursuing business disruption, along with visibility and status within the cybercriminal ecosystem.24 These groups frequently publicize their activities by announcing attacks, Valdecy Urquiza, Secretary-General, INTERPOL Collaboration against cybercrime In 2025, there have been several developments in the fight against cybercrime, including the signing of the Convention against Cybercrime, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in December 2024 after five years of negotiation.25 The Convention Law enforcement agencies are enhancing their cross-border coordination and intelligence-sharing capabilities, increasingly supported by expert insights from the private sector and international partnerships. Some notable operations in 2025 include: – Operation Serengeti 2.0: INTERPOL coordinated this operation with 18 African countries and the United Kingdom to tackle ransomware, online scams and business email compromise; it led to 1,209 arrests and the recovery of $97.4 million. The operation was strengthened by collaboration with the private sector and nongovernmental collaborations, such as the World Economic Forum-hosted Cybercrime Atlas.26 – Operation Secure: Led by INTERPOL, in coordination with law enforcement agencies across 26 countries and private-sector leaking stolen data or sharing screenshots on social media to showcase their capabilities. This culture of exposure has blurred the traditional boundaries between hacktivism, cybercrime and influence operations. Increasingly, groups frame their actions as activism to claim moral legitimacy and expand their online following, further complicating attribution and response efforts. A persistent trend is the blurring of lines between cybercrime and nation-state activity. Cybercriminals often adopt and adapt the tools, tactics and procedures of state actors, once these become publicly known. Conversely, some nation-states mask their involvement by collaborating with or attributing operations to criminal groups, to maintain plausible deniability – or leverage the capabilities of these actors to advance their own strategic objectives, often in exchange for turning a blind eye to their illicit activities. Facing rapid innovation in tech combined with the transformative impact of AI, law enforcement cannot fight cybercrime in isolation. Protecting communities now depends on true multistakeholder cooperation. Only together can we stay ahead of criminals and uphold safety, rights and resilience for a secure digital future. establishes the first universal framework for investigating and prosecuting offences committed online – from ransomware and financial fraud to the non-consensual sharing of intimate images. Additionally, public–private collaboration has enabled law enforcement agencies to carry out several successful cybercrime takedowns (see Box 3). partners, the operation, focused on infostealer malware, dismantled 20,000 malicious IP addresses and domains, seized 41 servers and resulted in 32 arrests. These INTERPOL operations were conducted under the umbrella of projects funded by the United Kingdom’s Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office.27 – Operation Endgame: Coordinated by Europol and Eurojust, with the support of international public and private partners, Operation Endgame dismantled malware infrastructure consisting of hundreds of thousands of infected computers containing several million stolen credentials.28 – Lumma Infostealer Disruption: Europol and Microsoft disrupted the Lumma malware ecosystem, affecting 394,000 infected machines and seizing 1,300+ domains.29 Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 33 3.4 Cyber resilience is the key to safeguarding economic value Cyber resilience underpins an organization’s ability to minimize the impact of significant cyber incidents on its primary business goals and objectives.30 Survey data shows increasing confidence in organizational cyber resilience. While 64% of organization report having met their minimum cyber FIGURE 24 Year-over-year perception of cyber resilience How would you rate your organization’s cyber resilience? 100% resilience requirements, regardless of regional or sectorial variation (as further detailed in Section 3.6), only 19% claimed that cyber resilience exceeds their requirements. This is, however, a double-digit increase compared to 2025, when only 9% reported exceeding resilience requirements. 20% 40% 60% 80% 17% 19% 64% 9% 69% 22% 13% 63% 24% 0% 2024 2025 Nevertheless, cyber resilience remains under pressure. In 2025, a wave of cyberattacks struck organizations at every level – for example, in the United Kingdom alone, prominent retailers such as Marks & Spencer, Harrods and Co-op all suffered major operational disruptions and data losses due to ransomware attacks.31 These incidents underscore that, despite expressing growing confidence in cyber resilience, organizations are still 2026 Our cyber resilience is insufficient Our cyber resilience meets minimum requirements Our cyber resilience exceeds our requirements facing major operational and reputational impacts from adversaries that are adapting rapidly. Against this backdrop, the top three reported challenges to strengthening cyber resilience, according to survey data, include: the rapidly evolving threat landscape and emerging technologies (61%); third-party and supply chain vulnerabilities (46%); and cyber skills and expertise shortages (45%). 34 FIGURE 25 Greatest challenges to cyber resilience for organizations What is your organization’s greatest challenge to becoming cyber resilient? (select up to three) Rapidly evolving threat landscapes and emerging technologies 61% Third-party and supply chain vulnerabilities 46% Legacy systems 31% Cybersecurity skills and expertise shortage 45% Lack of funds 30% Insufficient incident response and recovery planning 22% 24%Regulatory compliance and governance complexities 24%Lack of visibility across IT, OT and IoT environments 0% 20% Legacy risks in a rapidly evolving landscape Organizations are under pressure to adopt and prepare for new technologies while still struggling to secure legacy systems – 31% of respondents identified legacy infrastructure as one of their greatest challenges to achieving cyber resilience. Where technological innovation outpaces an organization’s capacity to adopt and upgrade its existing infrastructure, additional security controls often become necessary. While such measures support safe and secure operations across the organization, staying current in today’s rapidly evolving technological landscape inevitably involves accepting some residual risk. 40% 60% Over the years, successive waves of innovation cycles have caused organizations to accumulate a significant security debt, as speed and innovation were often prioritized over robust security measures. Indicative of this dynamic is the fact that survey respondents have ranked cloud technologies as the second-most significant technology expected to affect cybersecurity in the next 12 months. While many organizations are well advanced on their cloud journeys, this observation underscores that many of them are still deeply engaged with placing this topic high on their agenda. From legacy to resilience: Enabling cyber-physical security In today’s digital-industrial era, the boundary between IT and OT has all but disappeared. While strict air-gapped segregation of IT and OT systems used to be the norm in OT governance frameworks for years, contemporary advances in technology and expectations of connectivity between systems is making such practices untenable. Sectors such as manufacturing, energy, transportation and critical infrastructure systems now see IT and OT systems increasingly converge, driving efficiencies and innovation but also needing to apply more advanced segmentation to control risk exposure. Many industrial environments remain ill-equipped for the speed and complexity of modern threats. OT systems are typically averse to rapid modernization due to their close integration with core business functions and their typically long investment horizons. Survey data reveals that, despite growing awareness, governance practices around OT remain inconsistent and often siloed within operational teams. FIGURE 28 Perceived effectiveness of cyber-related regulations by all respondents What is your view about the effectiveness of cyber-related regulations? PositiveNegative26%74%Practitioners most frequently note that these regulations help CISOs raise cybersecurity awareness at the board level (58%) and drive tangible improvements in overall security posture (55%). At the same time, 18% of respondents cited challenges in ensuring that third-party vendors comply with diverse requirements, while others pointed to difficulties in fully understanding the applicability of regulations across business units and to limited internal resources and expertise (16%). While the overall view on the benefits of regulations is largely positive, respondents based in markets where such regulations are more mature, such as Europe and North America, face greater difficulty in applying them consistently across borders. This is reflected in the fact that survey results reveal a slightly lower perception of the actual effectiveness of cyber-related regulations – 30% in Europe and 29% in North America – possibly reflecting the fact that more advanced regulatory environments can also introduce greater complexity and compliance burdens. In a context of heightened geopolitical volatility and digital fragmentation, regulation thus serves as both a stabilizing force and a shared language for resilience – even as the contours of sovereignty and coordination continue to evolve. FIGURE 30 Sentiment towards cybersecurity regulations, by region What is your view about the effectiveness of cyber-related regulations? Middle East and North Africa East Asia and Pacific Latin America and the Caribbean Sub-Saharan Africa South Asia North America Europe and Central Asia 81% 19% 79% 21% 78% 22% 78% 22% 76% 24% 71% 29% 70% 30% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Positive Negative 38 FIGURE 31 Hallmarks of resilient organizations Leadership Governance, risk and compliance Business processes Technical systems Crisis management Ecosystem engagement People and culture Source: The Cyber Resilience Compass: Journeys Towards Resilience. (2025). World Economic Forum TABLE 4 The Cyber Resilience Compass32 is a collaborative framework that captures and shares proven front-line practices to help organizations strengthen their cyber resilience. It structures these practices into seven interrelated categories – leadership; governance, risk and compliance; people and Hallmarks of cyber-resilient companies culture; business processes; technical systems; crisis management; and ecosystem engagement. The Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 survey data demonstrates that highly resilient organizations exemplify these front-line practices: Compass category Hallmark High resilience Insufficient resilience Leadership Governance, risk and compliance People and culture Business processes Technical systems Crisis management Ecosystem engagement Board members hold personal liability in the event of cyber breaches 30% 9% Hold a positive view on effectiveness of cyber-related regulations 79% 62% Have the skills needed to achieve current cybersecurity objectives 78% 15% Involve security function in the procurement process 76% 53% Assess the security of AI tools before deploying them 83% 39% Simulate cyber incidents and/or plan recovery exercises with ecosystem partners 44% 16% Assess the security maturity of suppliers 74% 48% Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 39 Leadership Resilient organizations demonstrate strong board engagement in cybersecurity. Some 99% of respondents from highly resilient organizations report board involvement in this area. Among these, 52% indicate that board members receive regular cybersecurity updates, 48% report that board members are actively engaged with the cybersecurity function, and 45% state that their board has a clearly defined role in overseeing cybersecurity. FIGURE 32 Board engagement gaps, across organizational resilience levels 13% Insufficient resilience (%) that those organizations reporting high levels of resilience tend to express more favourable views on the effectiveness of regulations. Some 44% of highly resilient organizations underscore that regulations help them increase customer trust and brand reputation, compared to 20% of those that classify themselves as being insufficiently resilient. Conversely, insufficiently resilient organizations are more likely to report limited resources to track and implement changes to regulations (34%). 20% 0% 10% 1% High resilience (%) 8% Medium resilience (%) Board is not engaged in cybersecurity The World Economic Forum Centre for Cybersecurity’s latest white paper, Elevating Cybersecurity: Ensuring Strategic and Sustainable Impact for CISOs,33 explains that in order to strengthen resilience in an era of systemic cyber risk, organizations must empower CISOs and senior leaders to translate cybersecurity priorities into strategic business action. Governance, risk and compliance When viewing governance, risk and compliance from a regulatory perspective, survey data shows 40 FIGURE 33 Sentiment on regulations, by organizational resilience level What is your view about the effectiveness of cyber-related regulations? High resilience (%) Insufficient resilience (%) Positive, they help us raise awareness of security with our board and in our organization Positive, they help us to improve our security posture/reduce cyber risks in our organization Positive, they help us to increase customer trust and brand reputation Positive, they help to secure budget for cybersecurity Negative, difficult to ensure third-party vendors comply with relevant requirements Negative, difficult to fully understand applicability of the amount of regulations throughout our business Negative, difficult to ensure consistent implementation across business units/departments Negative, we have limited internal resources or expertise to track and implement changes 57% 56% 44% 44% 22% 17% 6% 7% 50% 44% 20% 33% 18% 20% 18% 34% 0% 20% 40% 60% 0% 20% 40% 60% People and culture Only 22% of highly resilient organizations report lacking the necessary workforce to achieve their cybersecurity objectives – a stark contrast to the 85% of insufficiently resilient organizations that face this challenge. Business processes Defined business processes that support cybersecurity posture are a key characteristic of resilient organizations. Survey data indicates that 76% of highly resilient organizations involve their security function in the procurement process, compared to just 53% in insufficiently resilient organizations. Technical systems Resilient organizations take a structured approach to designing, deploying and maintaining technical or digital systems: 44% of highly resilient organizations monitor OT security, compared to only 9% of insufficiently resilient ones. Additionally, 71% of highly resilient organizations regularly review the security of their AI tools, compared to only 20% of insufficiently resilient organizations. 42 FIGURE 36 Organizational resilience barriers, by resilience level What is your organization’s greatest challenge to becoming cyber resilient? (select up to three) 0% 40%20% 80%60% Third-party and supply chain vulnerabilities Rapidly evolving threat landscape and emerging technologies Insufficient incident response and recovery planning Lack of funds Cybersecurity skills and expertise shortage Regulatory compliance and governance complexities Legacy systems Lack of visibility across IT, OT and IoT environments 14% 15% 17% 22% 31% 35% 67% 71% 23% 41% 53% 15% 35% 28% 37% 52% High resilience (%) Insufficient resilience (%) TABLE 5 Ranking of cyber risk concerns, by organizational resilience level Rank Insufficient resilience Medium resilience High resilience 1 2 3 4 5 Ransomware attack Ransomware attack Supply chain disruption Cyber-enabled fraud and phishing Cyber-enabled fraud and phishing Exploitation of software vulnerabilities Exploitation of software vulnerabilities Exploitation of software vulnerabilities Cyber-enabled fraud and phishing AI vulnerabilities AI vulnerabilities Ransomware attack Supply chain disruption Supply chain disruption AI vulnerabilities With AI doubling in compute every three months or so, the risks of technology-enabled sophisticated cybercrimes have never been greater in human history. No matter how high your walls, every business faces an elevated risk of being breached. As perpetually adaptive enterprises, our focus has to be on building strong resilience and recovery frameworks, so that we can get our businesses, societies and economies up and running rapidly after an incident has taken place. The businesses that thrive in the future will not be those that have never been hit by cyber hacks or crimes, but those which have built the strongest capability to recover from them. K. Krithivasan, Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director, Tata Consultancy Services Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 43 BOX 4 The economic dimension of cybersecurity Cybersecurity is no longer just a technical issue; it is increasingly becoming a strategic economic priority. Decisions about how much to invest in protecting digital assets have become financial choices that shape an organization’s resilience, competitiveness and growth trajectory. Recent cyberattacks have underscored how deeply cybersecurity is intertwined with the broader economic landscape, inflicting tangible financial damage on businesses and national economies alike. According to United Kingdom government research, the average significant cyberattack costs businesses nearly £195,000 ($250,000). Scaled nationally, this equates to an estimated £14.7 billion ($19.4 billion) in annual economic losses.34 Additionally, the World Bank notes that reducing major cyber incidents could boost gross domestic product (GDP) per capita by 1.5% in developing economies.35 Such figures illustrate why the financial drivers and consequences of cyber incidents are increasingly commanding the attention of leaders across both the public and private sectors. In August 2025, Jaguar Land Rover – the United Kingdom’s largest automotive manufacturer – suffered a devastating cyberattack that brought production across its global operations to a halt for five weeks and affected more than 5,000 suppliers.36 The company faced direct financial repercussions, including £196 million ($260 million) in cyber-related costs and a nearly 25% drop in revenues to £4.9 billion ($6.5 billion).37 However, the wider UK economy absorbed an even greater shock, with an estimated £1.9 billion ($2.5 billion) in losses resulting from the disruption.38 This incident underscores several critical insights into the economics of cybersecurity. First, it highlights the importance of quantifying cyber risk and scenario-building to model the potential impact of cyberthreats, to drive adequate investments towards resilience. Second, it demonstrates the interdependence of supply chains, where disruptions in one actor can propagate across industries, amplifying risk and underscoring the need for sector-wide resilience strategies. Finally, it reinforces the vital role of public–private collaboration. The UK government’s £1.5 billion ($2 billion) loan guarantee to stabilize the supply chain exemplifies how coordinated responses and appropriate financial incentives are essential for managing systemic cyber risk and avoiding the need for such costly bailouts.39 Cybersecurity is not merely an IT function – it is a strategic business imperative and a cornerstone of national economic resilience. Beyond mitigating risk and preventing losses, it also serves as a driver of economic growth, fuelling innovation, job creation and competitiveness across industries. Investing in robust cyber risk management and resilience strategies not only safeguards corporate value and national stability but also strengthens the foundations of a secure and dynamic digital economy. To explore this economic dimension of cybersecurity and inform policy and industry practices, in May 2025, the World Economic Forum and the Global Cybersecurity Forum established the Centre for Cyber Economics (CCE).40 The CCE aims to empower stakeholders with the knowledge, tools and capabilities needed to ensure that cybersecurity remains an integral pillar of economic growth. 3.5 Securing supply chains amid opacity and concentration risks The digital supply chain is highly interconnected, with dependencies within and across industries that are often not clearly mapped. A breach or disruption of one supplier can cascade through the entire ecosystem, affecting production, operations and even other suppliers or customers. This complexity makes it difficult to assess and manage cyber risk effectively. Attacks on widely used software or service providers can have global and systemic impacts. Such critical interdependencies were highlighted by the cyberattack affecting airports across Europe in September 2025, where a relatively minor breach targeting the check-in and boarding systems used by several major airport hubs caused a cascading disruption to airport operations, with flight delays and cancellations.41 Though the immediate damage was contained, the incident exposed the fragility of interconnected digital supply chains, leaving participants in focus groups for this report to reflect on how devastating a similar attack could be if directed at hospitals or other critical infrastructure. Concerns about the resilience of supply chains against cyberattacks are continuing to worry business and cyber executives. This year’s survey data shows that 65% of large companies by revenue indicate third-party and supply chain vulnerabilities are their greatest challenge, which has risen from 54% in 2025.42 FIGURE 37 Large companies’ greatest barriers to cyber resilience, 2025–2026 What is your organization's greatest challenge to becoming cyber resilient? (select up to three) 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% Insufficient incident response and recovery planning 10% Lack of funds 15% Lack of visibility across IT, OT and loT environments 26% Cybersecurity skills and expertise shortage 29% Regulatory compliance and governance complexities 31% Legacy systems (data available for 2026 only) 49% Rapidly evolving threat landscape and emerging technologies 63% Third-party and supply chain vulnerabilities 65% 54% 52% 39% 25% 48% 24% 8% 2026 2025 Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 45 Industry Top supply chain risk Second supply chain risk Industry Top supply chain risk Second supply chain risk Rank What do you see as the main supply chain cyber risk for your organization? TABLE 6 1 2 3 4 5 TABLE 7 Energy Financial services Health and consumer ICT and media Manufacturing, supply chain and transportation Materials and infrastructure Professional services and institutional While supply chain vulnerabilities are worrying both business and cyber executives, Global Cybersecurity Outlook survey data shows that among a variety of concerns, CISOs tend to be more worried about the integrity of their external dependencies than CEOs. Among cyber risks, supply chain vulnerabilities have ranked as the second-most concerning issue for CISOs for two consecutive years. CISOs are deeply attuned to the technological interdependencies that have evolved as organizations adopt new systems to support both operations and resilience, making them more sensitive to potential disruptions in business continuity. The top supply chain risks in 2026 Organizations often lack direct control over the security practices of third-party vendors and suppliers. The Global Cybersecurity Outlook Ranking of top supply chain cyber risk survey shows that inheritance risk – the inability to assure the integrity of third-party software, hardware and services – is the top supply chain risk, followed by visibility. Even when strong internal controls are in place, the weakest link is frequently a supplier or partner with lower cybersecurity maturity. This is especially acute with smaller suppliers, who may lack the resources or incentives to implement robust security measures. Supply chain risks differ across industries. Overall, limited visibility emerges as the primary risk across industry clusters – especially for energy; financial services; manufacturing, supply chain and transportation; and materials and infrastructure – followed by inheritance risk. Inheritance risk: Unable to assure integrity of third-party software, hardware and services Visibility: Lack of visibility into extended supply chain Concentration risk: Too great dependence on critical third-party suppliers Procurement risk: Unable to apply security controls to third-party suppliers External factors: Uncertainty of impact of external factors Top supply chain risk, by industry Visibility: Lack of visibility into extended supply chain Inheritance risk: Unable to assure integrity of third-party software, hardware and services Visibility: Lack of visibility into extended supply chain Concentration risk: Too great dependence on critical third-party suppliers Inheritance risk: Unable to assure integrity of third-party software, hardware and services Visibility: Lack of visibility into extended supply chain Inheritance risk: Unable to assure integrity of third-party software, hardware and services Visibility: Lack of visibility into extended supply chain Visibility: Lack of visibility into extended supply chain Concentration risk: Too great dependence on critical third-party suppliers Visibility: Lack of visibility into extended supply chain Concentration risk: Too great dependence on critical third-party suppliers Inheritance risk: Unable to assure integrity of third-party software, hardware and services Visibility: Lack of visibility into extended supply chain Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 46 While the majority of organizations across industries evaluate the security maturity of their suppliers (66%) and involve the security function in procurement processes (65%), significantly fewer adopt more advanced resilience measures. Only 27% simulate cyber incidents or conduct recovery exercises, and a mere 33% comprehensively map their supply chain ecosystems to gain a deeper understanding of cyberthreat exposure and interdependencies. These survey results denote that supply chain risk management is often treated as a compliance checklist rather than as a dynamic, continuous process. Existing regulations typically establish only a minimum-security baseline, which may be insufficient to address rapidly evolving threats. A key challenge lies in incentivizing both organizations and their suppliers to strengthen cyber resilience. Smaller vendors frequently lack the resources to implement robust security measures, while buyers may still prioritize cost and efficiency over security when choosing partners. This imbalance creates persistent exposures, as attackers tend to exploit the weakest links within the supply chain. Cyber resilience is no longer confined to individual organizations; it depends on the strength of our entire ecosystem. By embedding cybersecurity across supply chains, sharing intelligence transparently and aligning public–private efforts, we can build a trusted digital foundation that supports innovation, stability and sustainable economic growth. Mohamed Al Kuwaiti, Head of Cybersecurity, United Arab Emirates Government FIGURE 39 Technologies that organizations expect to most significantly affect cybersecurity in the next 12 months In your view, which of the following technologies will most significantly affect cybersecurity in the next 12 months? (select up to three) 40%20% 80%60% 100% AI/machine learning technologies (generative AI, agentic AI, malicious use of AI, AI-driven detection and response) Cloud technologies (growing reliance on cloud infrastructure) Quantum technologies (computing, encryption) Autonomous systems/robotics Decentralized technologies (secure multi-party computation, blockchain) Space technologies (satellite communication, GPS, internet) Other disruptive technologies 94% 61% 37% 26% 20% 3% 9% 0% Responses (%) Cloud providers have become critical enablers of modern ecosystems, yet they also represent concentrated points of dependency across organizations’ ecosystems. As digital supply chains rely more on an interconnected cloud environment, the boundaries become increasingly complex, creating governance and resilience challenges. While these platforms strengthen efficiency and connectivity, a single disruption or misconfiguration can cascade through the entire organization ecosystem, exposing how cloud and IoT Integration increase overall exposure. In October 2025, a disruption occurred due to a misconfiguration in a Domain Name System (DNS) operated by Amazon Web Services (AWS), affecting thousands of organizations worldwide. Microsoft Azure cloud platform also experienced a global outage during the same month.44 Shortly after, in November 2025, Cloudflare also experienced an outage, disrupting many online services.45 While not cybersecurity issues, these events illustrate how provider-level incidents can generate broad downstream impacts across interconnected digital ecosystems.46 3.6 Drivers of cyber inequity in 2026 Cyber capacity across the global ecosystem remains uneven across industries and regions, influenced by differences in skills, resources and available digital infrastructure and governance frameworks. While certain organizations continue to invest in security, many others face challenges in sustaining even a baseline level of cybersecurity. This imbalance – described as cyber inequity – creates vulnerabilities that extend beyond individual entities, exposing entire interconnected supply chains to risk. The Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2025 examined this inequity through three key dimensions: small versus large organizations; developed versus emerging economies; and disparities across sectors. The 2026 survey data reveals that perceptions of resilience levels still vary across regions. High degrees of confidence in resilience levels are expressed by respondents based in the Middle East and North Africa, while lower levels of resilience are expressed in Latin America and the Caribbean and sub-Saharan Africa. Despite rising confidence in cyber resilience overall, inequities persist between smaller and larger organizations.47 Survey data indicates that small organizations (by revenue) are twice as likely to experience insufficient resilience levels as large organizations. Similarly, across sectors, survey data reveals that the divide remains: NGOs report 37% insufficient resilience, and the public sector 23%, compared with just 11% in the private sector. Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 48 FIGURE 40 Regional levels of organizational cyber resilience How would you rate your organization’s cyber resilience? Middle East and North Africa North America Europe and Central Asia East Asia and Pacific Latin America and the Caribbean South Asia Sub-Saharan Africa 47% 13% 61% 32%8% 15%77%9% 62% 25%12% 16%66%18% 13%66%21% 62% 14%24% 40% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Our cyber resilience exceeds our requirements Our cyber resilience meets minimum requirements Our cyber resilience is insufficient FIGURE 42 Resilience challenges across sectors What is your organization’s greatest challenge to becoming cyber resilient? (select up to three) 20% 40% 60% Rapidly evolving threat landscape and emerging technologies Third-party and supply chain vulnerabilities Cybersecurity skills and expertise shortage Lack of funds 59% 67% 60% 53% 35% 26% 38% 57% 51% 26% 29% 62% 0% Private sector Public sector and international organizations NGOs Having adequate cybersecurity skills has emerged as a key differentiator between highly resilient and insufficiently resilient organizations. Among those reporting insufficient levels of cyber resilience, 85% also cited missing critical skills and people to fulfil cybersecurity objectives. By comparison, only 22% 80% of highly resilient organizations viewed skills gaps as a significant challenge. According to the survey, the top three cybersecurity roles experiencing shortages are threat intelligence analysts, DevSecOps engineers, and identity and access management specialists. FIGURE 44 Regional perspectives on cyber skills shortages Does your organization’s workforce have the skills needed to achieve its current cybersecurity objectives? South Asia 57% 43% Europe and Central Asia 57% 43% East Asia and Pacific 56% 44% Middle East and North Africa 53% 47% North America 52% 48% SubSaharan Africa 37% 63% Latin America and the Caribbean 35% 65% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Yes, we have the people and skills we need today No, we are missing critical people and skills Encouragingly, some organizations acknowledge this imbalance and are taking steps to address it. Among experts surveyed during the Annual Meeting of the Global Future Councils and Cybersecurity 2025, 34% reported that their organizations provide formal, structured guidance or support – such as programmes, training or services – to smaller or less resourced partners. A further 31% said their organizations offer informal or ad hoc assistance. Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 51 FIGURE 45 How organizations support their ecosystem Does your organization currently provide cybersecurity guidance or support to smaller or less resourced organizations? BOX 5 Provide formal, structured guidance or support (e.g. programmes, training, services) Provide informal or ad-hoc guidance (e.g. advice, one-off support) No 34% 35% 31% Advances in AI are further deepening existing inequity AI is emerging as both a transformative tool and a new source of inequity in cybersecurity. As AI capabilities become central to defence and detection strategies, unequal access to advanced technologies, data and expertise risks deepening the divide between well-resourced and resource-constrained organizations. At the same time, AI is often embedded into updates and released as new features, making it harder for organizations with limited resources to fully understand, govern or control its introduction.50 More than half of all respondents (54%) identified limited knowledge and skills as a key obstacle to adopting AI-driven solutions for cybersecurity. Larger organizations (by revenue) are emerging as early leaders in leveraging AI-driven threat detection and automation. As the Global Cybersecurity Outlook survey data highlights, companies with higher balance sheets report higher AI adoption rates, while smaller entities (by revenue), governments and NGOs tend to lag behind. Beyond these findings, expert interviewees noted that some industries progress more rapidly due to greater technical maturity and investment capacity, while others remain constrained by financial, regulatory or procedural barriers – further reinforcing existing disparities in cybersecurity preparedness. Within interconnected supply chains, these differences in capabilities significantly increase systemic exposure: adversaries can target less-protected partners to infiltrate high-value organizations downstream. A vulnerability in one supplier today may become another organization’s breach tomorrow. This shift underscores the growing importance of viewing security through an ecosystem lens, where the resilience of one actor depends on the vigilance of all. Cyber inequity isn’t simply a matter of different budgets or geographies – it is the invisible fault-line where those lacking access to security skills, resources and awareness are perennially targeted by countless bad actors. The actual capability gap lies not just in technologies, but in people: in the professionals needing more training and support, and in the underfunded small- to medium-sized businesses and other similarly positioned entities that make up 90% of our global ecosystem, which cannot keep pace with evolving threats. Bridging this divide requires more than well-meaning intentions that habitually fail to garner holistic, top-down, organization-wide support. It demands vendor-neutral education/credentialling, mentorship and a receptive, global mindset powered by diverse, inclusive collaboration. Illena Armstrong, President, Cloud Security Alliance Future threat vectors are emerging in silence While AI continues to dominate the cybersecurity landscape, several other technologies and threat vectors are quietly gaining traction in the background and are expected to affect cybersecurity by 2030. Drawing on a focus group session with members of the Global Future Councils – including Artificial General Intelligence, Clean Air, Cybersecurity, Data Frontiers, Decentralized Finance, Energy Technology Frontiers, Generative Biology, Geopolitics, Information Integrity, and Next-Generation Computing – it is possible to integrate their forward-looking perspectives with data from the Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 survey to reveal the emerging risks likely to define cybersecurity in the coming years. Our digital world runs through cables lying deep beneath the ocean’s surface. With 99% of international data traffic flowing through them, these undersea systems are the unseen lifelines of our global economy – and they are also uniquely vulnerable. A single break can disrupt essential services and daily life for billions. Building true resilience means moving from awareness to action: faster repairs, more diverse routes, and international cooperation that matches the critical nature of these assets. Doreen Bogdan-Martin, Secretary-General, ITU Autonomous systems and robotics Some 26% of survey respondents indicated that autonomous systems and robotics will affect cybersecurity in 2026, and according to experts in the Global Future Councils, this proportion is expected to rise by 2030. By the end of the decade, autonomous systems will be a near-term factor, from AI assisting analysis to directing physical actions in factories, logistics, healthcare and public spaces. This evolution could create a new cyber-physical risk profile, where machine-executed decisions can alter safety and service quality within seconds, compressing detection and response windows. Interdependencies are likely to deepen as autonomous workflows lean on shared cloud platforms, models and data, meaning disruptions or errors could propagate rapidly across operations and supply chains. Physical AI is becoming a security concern, as intelligent robots – such as those now used for order-picking in warehouses or moving containers in ports – evolve from simple machines to adaptive systems, making their behaviour less predictable and more vulnerable to compromised learning processes or control software. Securing these systems requires embedded cybersecurity by design, strong access controls for human–robot interaction and continuous monitoring to maintain operational integrity. Digital currencies By 2030, digital currencies are expected to play a growing role in daily economic activity, with broader adoption across retail payments, payroll systems and selected public and cross-border services.51 This ubiquity makes them both foundational and fragile. Cyberattacks targeting exchanges, wallets and smart-contract infrastructure have already caused multibilliondollar losses, and by 2030 such incidents could have systemic consequences, triggering potential liquidity shocks or eroding confidence in national and corporate digital assets.52 In 2025, for instance, a major crypto-exchange breach attributed to a state-linked threat group resulted in losses exceeding $1.5 billion, with investigators estimating that nearly a fifth of the stolen funds were rapidly converted into unrecoverable assets – a stark reminder of how quickly digital liquidity can vanish in emerging regulatory contexts.53 As synthetic identities and AI-driven fraud evolve, real-time verification and resilience of settlement networks will define trust in the financial system. Interdependencies among decentralized finance, central-bank digital currencies and autonomous payment agents mean that disruption in one layer can quickly ripple through others. In this environment, digital currencies have become critical infrastructure whose security underpins economic and societal stability. Space technologies and undersea cables Space and seabed infrastructure remain comparatively overlooked in cyber risk planning, despite enabling core functions of critical infrastructure. In 2026, 9% of respondents indicated that space technologies will most significantly impact cybersecurity. Looking ahead to 2030, satellite-based positioning, navigation and timing will be even more essential for aviation, maritime activities, power-grid coordination and financial transactions. At the same time, satellite communications and undersea cables will form the backbone for emergency services, cloud infrastructure and international data exchange.54 Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 54 Despite this, only 15% of respondents consider space assets, and 18% account for undersea cables, in cyber risk mitigation. With the growth of AI-driven operations, cloud services and autonomous systems, organizations will increasingly rely on precise timing, navigation and robust data connections. This heightened dependence means that even small disruptions in satellite or undersea cable infrastructure could trigger widespread impacts across entire digital ecosystems. Natural disasters and climate change By 2030, the convergence of climate volatility and digital dependency will have transformed natural disasters into complex cyber-physical crises. Extreme weather, prolonged droughts and heatwaves routinely disrupt power, data and logistics networks, while AI-driven coordination systems for energy grids, water and emergency response introduce new attack surfaces. As renewable energy and storage infrastructures expand, their dense networks of inverters, sensors and cloud-linked controllers multiply points of cyber exposure. Climate-related shocks increasingly coincide with misinformation and organized influence operations that capitalize on confusion during emergencies, eroding confidence in institutions. Cross-border impacts – such as satellite degradation from solar storms or undersea-cable damage from seabed shifts – underscore how physical events cascade through digital infrastructure. By 2030, climate may not just be a background stressor but a persistent amplifier of cyber risk, extending recovery times and blurring the line between environmental and digital resilience as emerging technologies combine and create cumulative risks that can compound the effect of climate-driven disruptions. Quantum technologies In 2026, 37% of Global Cybersecurity Outlook survey respondents believe quantum technologies will affect cybersecurity within the next 12 months. This reflects expectations of greater investment, stronger regulatory momentum and a faster pace of digital transformation in the year ahead. By 2030, quantum will have evolved from a theoretical disruptor into a selective but material threat to cryptography. State-level or well-resourced actors may be capable of quantum-accelerated attacks on high-value targets, even as full-scale code breaking remains rare. At the same time, defenders will harness quantum-enhanced analytics and sensing for anomaly detection, creating a dynamic attacker– defender race. The greatest systemic exposure will come from legacy encryption in embedded and industrial systems that cannot easily migrate. Driven by increased timelines and awareness – including the availability of National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards and guidance introduced in 2024, as well as tight migration deadlines set by national cybersecurity agencies – regulations are taking more decisive action and providing clearer guidelines for the transition to post-quantum cryptography.55 The window for proactive migration to these new cryptographic standards is closing fast. Those who delay will find that quantum readiness has become the next frontier of systemic cyber risk. 55 56 57 58 The Centre for Cybersecurity would like to thank Michael Daniel the Centre Partners: Accenture, Aramco, Fortinet, Cyber Threat Alliance IBM, Palo Alto Networks and Salesforce. Miguel de Bruycker The World Economic Forum would like to thank Centre for Cybersecurity, Belgium the following individuals who shared their insights and knowledge in focus group interviews or Fabio di Franco community meetings. European Union Agency for Cyber Security Paige Adams Sabrina Feng Zurich Insurance London Stock Exchange Group Bushra AlBlooshi Frank Fischer Dubai Electronic Security Center DHL Group Hoda Al Khazimi Janus Friis Bindslev New York University Abu Dhabi PensionDanmark Hessah Almajhad Javier Garcia Quintela Saudi Institute Technology Company (SITE) Repsol Yasser N. Alswailem Michael Goodman Saudi Telecom Company Hitachi Mandy Andress Carlo Hopstaken Elastic EFG International Hadi Anwar Öykü Işık CPX IMD Business School Brad Arkin Terje Jensen Salesforce Telenor Illena Armstrong Shaun Khalfan Cloud Security Alliance PayPal Nik Bartholomew Chan Meng Khoong Occidental Petroleum Corporation National University of Singapore Federico Blasiotti Sami Khoury Adecco Group Communications Security Establishment, Canada Christophe Blassiau Motoyoshi Kurokawa Schneider-Electric RIKEN Erik Blomberg Sebastian Lange Handelsbanken SAP Stefan Braun Kris Lovejoy Henkel Kyndryl Cristina Camacho Derek Manky Global Forum on Cyber Expertise Foundation Fortinet Ann Cleaveland Luigi Martino University of California, Berkeley University of Florence Anna Collard Michael Mestrovich KnowBe4 Rubrik Belisario Contreras Deryck Mitchelson Digi Americas Check Point Software Technologies Karolina Czarkowska Paulo Moniz Carlsberg Group EDP Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 59 Luis Filipe Morais Galp Energia Leslie Nielsen Mimecast Sameer Patil Observer Research Foundation Cezary Piekarski Standard Chartered Thelma Quaye Smart Africa Secretariat Jim Reavis Cloud Security Alliance Humberto Luiz Ribeiro da Silva Ciberlab at University of Brasilia Robert Rodger Admiral Insurance Christian Rossow CISPA Helmholtz Center for Information Security Jason Ruger Lenovo Mehzad Sahar Engro Corporation Jamie Saunders University of Oxford Chua Kuan Seah Cyber Security Agency of Singapore Shlomo Serfaty Israel National Cyber Directorate Sachit Singh OakNorth Despina Spanou European Commission Confidence Staveley CyberSafe Foundation Diego Subero Organization of American States (OAS) Yann Sweeney Springer Nature Satoshi Takeda Mitsubishi Electric Corporation Kemba Walden Paladin Capital Group Wendi Whitmore Palo Alto Networks Carl Windsor Fortinet The authors are grateful to Shuyao Li, Cosima Piepenbrock, Aletta Steynberg, Jakub Tyrakowski and Kesang Tashi Ukyab for their contributions to the Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026. The World Economic Forum would like to acknowledge the following communities for their contributions to the Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026: the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) Community, the Partnership Against Cybercrime community, the Cyber Resilience in Industries community, the Global Future Council on Cybersecurity, the Global Future Council on Artificial General Intelligence, the Global Future Council on Clean Air, the Global Future Council on Data Frontiers, the Global Future Council on Decentralized Finance, the Global Future Council on Energy Technology Frontiers, the Global Future Council on Generative Biology, the Global Future Council on Geopolitics, the Global Future Council on Information Integrity, and the Global Future Council on Next Generation Computing. Production Laurence Denmark Creative Director, Studio Miko Craig Hillsley Editor, Astra Content Alison Moore Editor, Astra Content Cat Slaymaker Designer, Studio Miko Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 60 61 25. 26. 27. 28. 29. 30. 31. 32. 33. 34. 35. 36. 37. 38. 39. 40. 41. 42. 43. 44. 45. 46. 47. 48. 49. 50. Mishra, V. (2025, October 25). Sixty-five nations sign first UN treaty to fight cybercrime, in milestone for digital cooperation. UN News. https://news.un.org/en/story/2025/10/1166182 INTERPOL. (2025, June 11). 20,000 malicious IPs and domains taken down in INTERPOL infostealer crackdown. https://www.interpol.int/en/News-and-Events/News/2025/20-000-malicious-IPs-and-domains-taken-down-inINTERPOL-infostealer-crackdown INTERPOL. (2025, August 22). African authorities dismantle massive cybercrime and fraud networks, recover millions. https://www.interpol.int/en/News-and-Events/News/2025/African-authorities-dismantle-massive-cybercrime-and-fraudnetworks-recover-millions Europol. (2025, November 13). End of the game for cybercrime infrastructure: 1025 servers taken down. https://www.europol.europa.eu/media-press/newsroom/news/end-of-game-for-cybercrime-infrastructure-1025-serverstaken-down Europol. (2025, May 21). Europol and Microsoft disrupt world’s largest infostealer Lumma. https://www.europol.europa.eu/ media-press/newsroom/news/europol-and-microsoft-disrupt-world%E2%80%99s-largest-infostealer-lumma World Economic Forum. (2025). The Cyber Resilience Compass: Journeys towards resilience. https://www.weforum.org/publications/the-cyber-resilience-compass-journeys-towards-resilience/ Milmo, D. (2025, May 21). Scattered Spider is focus of NCA inquiry into cyber-attacks against UK retailers. The Guardian. https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2025/may/21/scattered-spider-national-crime-agency-inquiry-cyber-attacksuk-retailers World Economic Forum. (2025). The Cyber Resilience Compass: Journeys towards resilience. https://www.weforum.org/publications/the-cyber-resilience-compass-journeys-towards-resilience/ World Economic Forum. (2025). Elevating cybersecurity: Ensuring strategic and sustainable impact for CISOs. https://www.weforum.org/publications/elevating-cybersecurity-ensuring-strategic-and-sustainable-impact-for-cisos/ United Kingdom Department for Science, Innovation & Technology. (2025, November 12). Summary of research on the economic impact of cyber attacks. https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/independent-research-on-the-economicimpact-of-cyber-attacks-on-the-uk/summary-of-research-on-the-economic-impact-of-cyber-attacks Cakir, S., & Vergara Cobos, E. B. (2024). A review of the economic costs of cyber incidents. World Bank. https://documents.worldbank.org/en/publication/documents-reports/documentdetail/099092324164536687 Taaffe-Maguire, S. (2025, November 14). Direct cost of Jaguar Land Rover cyber attack which impacted UK economic growth revealed. Sky News. https://news.sky.com/story/direct-cost-of-jaguar-land-rover-cyber-attack-which-impacteduk-economic-growth-revealed-13470193 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive. (2025, November 14). JLR performance impacted in challenging quarter [Press release]. https://media.jaguarlandrover.com/news/2025/11/jlr-performance-impacted-challenging-quarter Pearson, J. (2025, October 22). Jaguar Land Rover hack cost UK economy $2.5 billion, report says. Reuters. https://www.reuters.com/sustainability/boards-policy-regulation/jaguar-land-rover-hack-cost-uk-economy-25-billionreport-says-2025-10-22/ United Kingdom Government. (2025, September 28). Government backs Jaguar Land Rover with £1.5 billion loan guarantee. https://www.gov.uk/government/news/government-backs-jaguar-land-rover-with-15-billion-loan-guarantee World Economic Forum. (n.d.). Centre for Cyber Economics. Retrieved November 25, 2025, from https://initiatives.weforum.org/4ir-network/centreforcybereconomics Tidy, J., & Wilson, T. (2025, September 22). EU cyber agency says airport software held to ransom by criminals. BBC. https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cqjeej85452o The category of smallest organizations by annual revenue in the Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 data is <$250 million; the category of medium is between $250 million and $5.5 billion; and the category of large is > $5.5 billion. Tewari, S., & Hoskins, P. (2025, October 11). How hackers forced brewing giant Asahi back to pen and paper. BBC. https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cly64g5y744o Reuters. (2025, October 30). Microsoft Azure’s services restored after global outage. https://www.reuters.com/technology/microsoft-azure-down-thousands-users-downdetector-shows-2025-10-29/ Burgess, M., & Newman, L. H. (2025, October 25). Security news this week: Amazon explains how its AWS outage took down the web. WIRED. https://www.wired.com/story/amazon-explains-how-its-aws-outage-took-down-the-web/ Prince, M. (2025, November 18). Cloudflare outage on November 18, 2025. Cloudflare. https://blog.cloudflare.com/18-november-2025-outage/ The category of smallest organizations by annual revenue in the Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 data is <$250 million; the category of medium is between $250 million and $5.5 billion; and the category of large is > $5.5 billion. CyberPeace Builders. (n.d.). CyberPeace Builders. Retrieved November 25, 2025, from https://cpb.ngo/ Common Good Cyber. (n.d.). Common Good Cyber. Retrieved November 25, 2025, from https://commongoodcyber.org/ World Economic Forum. (2025). Artificial intelligence and cybersecurity: Balancing risks and rewards. https://reports.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Artificial_Intelligence_and_Cybersecurity_Balancing_Risks_and_Rewards_2025.pdf Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 62 51. 52. 53. 54. 55. Strohecker, K. (2023, July 10). Twenty-four central banks will have digital currencies by 2030, survey shows. Reuters. https://www.reuters.com/markets/currencies/twenty-four-central-banks-will-have-digital-currencies-by-2030-bissurvey-2023-07-10/ Siripurapu, A., & Berman, N. (2024, January 17). The crypto question: Bitcoin, digital dollars, and the future of money. Council on Foreign Relations. https://www.cfr.org/backgrounder/crypto-question-bitcoin-digital-dollars-and-future-money Tidy, J. (2025, March 10). North Korean hackers cash out hundreds of millions from $1.5 billion ByBit hack. BBC. https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c2kgndwwd7lo International Telecommunication Union. (2024, November 29). Launch of international advisory body to support resilience of submarine telecom cables: Strengthening resilience of submarine cable networks is key to digital connectivity and economies [Press release]. https://www.itu.int/en/mediacentre/Pages/PR-2024-11-29-advisory-body-submarine-cableresilience.aspx National Institute of Standards & Technology. (2024, August 13). NIST releases first 3 finalized post-quantum encryption standards . https://www.nist.gov/news-events/news/2024/08/nist-releases-first-3-finalized-post-quantum-encryptionstandards Global Cybersecurity Outlook 2026 63 The World Economic Forum, committed to improving the state of the world, is the International Organization for Public-Private Cooperation. The Forum engages the foremost political, business and other leaders of society to shape global, regional and industry agendas. World Economic Forum 91–93 route de la Capite CH-1223 Cologny/Geneva Switzerland Tel.: +41 (0) 22 869 1212 Fax: +41 (0) 22 786 2744 contact@weforum.org www.weforum.org 